Rewrite Upgrade Guide (#1131)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/administration/upgrading/guide/creating-test-instance.md

---
title: Creating a test instance
description: A guide on how to create a test instance with Octopus Deploy
position: 8
---

> There is always a risk an in-place upgrade will fail.  The risk increases further away from the latest version.  We do our best to test as many different configurations as to put downward pressure on that risk. The truth of the matter is we can't cover every hyper-specific scenario.  Also, there might be a new feature, or a breaking change introduced.  Creating a test instance will help reduce the risk for you and your company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is always a risk an in-place upgrade will fail.  The risk increases as more versions have been released between upgrades.  We do our best to test many different configurations to put downward pressure on that risk. However, we can't cover every hyper-specific scenario.  Also, there might be a new feature, or a breaking change introduced.  Creating a test instance will help you reduce the risk for you and your company.
```

## Overview

> There are two approaches to creating a test instance.
> 
> 1. Subset of projects representing the main instance
> 1. Clone of the main instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two approaches to creating a test instance:

1. Subset of projects representing the main instance.
1. Clone of the main instance.
```

### Test instance with a subset of projects

Setting up a test instance with a subset of projects over a full clone has several advantages.  

> - It is much easier to set up and configure than a clone.  It is also easy to automate the setting up and tear down a test instance on demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is much easier to set up and configure than a clone.  It is also easy to automate the setting up and tearing down a test instance on demand.
```

- There is tooling in place to export specific projects.

> - A clone does a full clone of everything, including deployment targets and triggers, increasing the risk of having the sandbox instance connect to production at first.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what `at first` is referring to.

Reviewer 2: One for @OctopusBob, but perhaps this should say `when started`?

Context: I _think_ the point is that cloning an instance carries an increased risk of connecting to production when you start that cloned instance (since it will think its the main instance) without remedial scripts to change the state of the cloned instance

- A clone might have hidden configuration options, such as server folders, that you have to change.

> The disadvantage of a subset of projects over a full clone is it is not an entire apple to apple upgrade.  If you have significant drift between projects, you might miss something.

Reviewer: `apple to apple` is a bit of a colloquialism:)  
```suggestion
The disadvantage of a subset of projects over a full clone is that there could be significant drift between projects, and you might miss something.
```

The process to create an instance with a subset of projects is:

1. Download the same version of Octopus Deploy as your main instance.
1. Install Octopus Deploy on a new VM.
1. Export a subset of projects from the main instance.
1. Import that subset of projects to the test instance.
1. Test and verify the test instance.  

!include <upgrade-download-same-version>
!include <upgrade-install-test-version>
!include <upgrade-export-import-test-projects>
!include <upgrade-testing-upgraded-instance>

### Test instance is a clone

Setting up a test instance as a clone of the main instance has a few advantages over a subset of projects.

> - Upgrades are much closer to an apple to apple comparison.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Upgrades are much closer to an one to one comparison.
```

> - Can do a full test of all integrations with Octopus Deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can do a full test of all integrations with Octopus Deploy.
```
